{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1. Feynman Writing Prompts\

\b For: 
\b0 For is commonly used to create a loop in code. After the for statement within the parentheses, three different parameters can be filled out. As long as these parameters are filled out, then the code will continue to loop. The first statement is an initialization statement that generally creates a variable to be used as the control for the loop. The second is a parameter that must remain fulfilled for the code to continue to loop. The third is the controlling expression which makes sure that the loop does not continue infinitely.
\b \
&&, ||, !: 
\b0 These symbols are comparison operators or comparators. They evaluate expressions on each side of the symbol. The first one is an and symbol, meaning that if both sides of the symbol evaluate correctly, then it is true. If just one is wrong, it is false. The second is the or symbol, meaning that just one side has to be correct to evaluate to true. The third one is an operator that goes before operators like the equal comparison symbol and means \'93not\'94.
\b \
Arrays: 
\b0 Arrays are groups or lists of different data types. They can be of all of the same data type or varying ones. For example: \{1, 2, 3,\}, \{1, \'93type\'94, null\}}