Feynman Writing Prompts.
Lambda School Mini-bootcamp, Lesson 4 Homework
Alex McEvoy
04/02/18

The following are simple descriptions of several concepts.

1.) Variables - Variables are like boxes where we can put other values. These values could be numbers (like integer variables), words/sentences (like string variables) or simply the values true or false (like in boolean variables). We use these boxes to represent whatever value we have put in them, instead of writing that value itself. These boxes allow us to do a few things more easily. The first is that instead of just writing the value over and over again, such as 534,456,453, we can simply call this behemoth number x. Another is that it allows us to change x to be a different value, and all of the rest of our code that uses x can stay the same. Yet a third handy characteristic of variables is that even if we're not sure of what value we'd like to store in variable x, we can still use x! x could represent a value that is input by the user when running our program, it could be the result of some type of calculation, or it could just be a counter that keeps track of how many times we do something. The possibilities are endless, and variables help us better manage those possibilities and keep our code organized.

2.) Strings - Strings in computer science just basically means words, or sentences. The sentence "This is a string", is technically a string. A good way to think of strings is that they are a string of letters or characters. To make the word "Hello", we've got to string together the letters 'H' 'e' 'l' 'l' and 'o'. In some of the higher level languages, theres no difference in terms of whether a string has 1 letter, or lots of letters. "a" is a string, and "aaaaa" is also a string. It's also important to remember that strings can include characters as well. The sentence "Hello there!", includes the exclamation point symbol, "!". You can have a string of all symbols if you'd like, such as "$#%^&%#@#$&". In programming, we usually know we've got a string when we see words, sentences or symbols enclosed in quotation marks, either single or double quotes in Javascript "This is a string", 'This is also a string'.

3.) Functions - Functions are the workhorses of programming. I like to think of them like machines that we can program to do whatever we want. Imagine a bread maker that could take whatever ingredients you wanted to put in and give back whatever you wanted it to make. It could be anything, give it a toy car, it gives you back a young pony. Give it a bag of rocks and it gives you back a beach ball. Well that's what functions do, except the options that we have in terms of what we give it, are variables, and what it returns, are variables. When you declare a function, which is basically just saying when you first write the function, you have to tell what kind of variables your going to give the function. These are called arguments. Within the function, you have to write what the function creates, or gives out, like our bread machine. This is called what the function returns. So will our function take in variables like numbers for its arguments, and return variables like a string for it's return value? It's entirely up to you.

4.) 'if' statements - Sometimes in our code we need to make a decision. If we want our programs to be able to do more than one thing every time, we need to find a way to tell it "see how things are going, if things are going one way, do this, but if things aren't going that way, do that". We check up on the status of our program using variables, like we talked about earlier, and if statements. For example, if we have a user enter the number 1 if they are happy, the computer can say "Great, I'm glad your happy!". If the user enters 2 however, we can say "That's too bad, I hope you feel better". An if statement is how our computer program looks at the number the person typed, lets call it x, and see if its 1 (output the "Great!" message) or it it's 2 (output the "too bad" message).

5.) Boolean Values - In programming, we often need to decide whether or not to do something one way, or another, just like we described with if statements. Another way to describe the above situation is, "If the person is happy, output message 1, if not, output message 2". Instead of using an if statement to check whether or not the person entered 1 or 2, we can use what we call Boolean values to see if the statement is true or false. A boolean value is a type of variable, so an empty box where we can put a value, but the only value we can put in the box is either true, or false.
