{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1.) Variables - A variable is a container used to store the value of something to use later on. Can be created using var, let, or const. You can change the data contained inside the variable container, it is not permanent. \
For example:\
let puppy = corgi;\
can easily be changed to:\
let puppy = yorki;\
The data inside the variable  puppy was changed. \
\
2.) Strings - A string is a group of letters together surrounded by quotation marks. Single quotation marks are preferred over double. Any letters together can be a string. \'91Cat\'92 is a string. As well as \'91bbbbbb\'92.\
\
3.) Functions (arguments, \'91return\'92) - A function is like a recipe for the computer to follow. It contains instructions in a block of code for the computer to read and carry out an action. Arguments are specialized instructions that apply to how the computer will carry out the action in the function. It is like a recipe for cookies specifying to fold in chocolate chips instead of mixing them in. Return statements are the end of a function. Their can be multiple return functions. The computer will continue to act until the function no longer meets the criteria of next return. \
\
4.) \'91if\'92 statements - Used when the direction of action the computer needs to take depend on whether the statement is true or false. It works like having a road fork off into two trails. The computer will come to the two trails, and depending on whether the information contained with in he code is true or false, will decide which direction to go. \
\
5.) Boolean values (\'91true\'92, \'91false\'92) - A boolean value can only be true or false. They are very black and white, there is no maybe value. For example, it is stated the TV is on. If it is, this would be true. If it was actually off, it would be false. In code, it could be stated a number value is greater or equal to 5. If the number was 6, it would be true. If the number was 4, it would be false. }