{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red31\green31\blue31;\red255\green255\blue255;\red31\green31\blue31;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15840\viewh14320\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl520

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 Objects
\b0\fs20 \

\fs24 In the real world, an object is anything that is well-defined; say a car, a bat, a ball, a door, etc. An object has well-defined characteristics. These characteristics make one object easily differentiable from others. There is not much scope for confusion between, say, a bat and player.\
In computer science, an object can be a variable, a data structure, a function, or a method, and as such, is a location in memory having a value and referenced by an identifier.
\fs20 \
\

\b\fs28 Properties
\b0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\fs24 \cf2 A property is a named value, which the object has. For example, object Human has the property 'Age'.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl520

\b \cf2 \

\fs28 Methods
\b0\fs20 \

\fs24 Methods are similar to functions, they belong to objects and usually express the verbs of the objects. For example, an object of type Window usually would have methods open and close which do corresponding operations to the object they belong.\

\fs20 \

\b\fs28 for in loop
\b0\fs20 \

\fs24 The for...in statement iterates over the enumerable properties of an object. For each distinct property, statements can be executed.
\fs20 \
\
\

\b\fs28 Dot notation vs bracket notation
\b0\fs20 \

\fs24 There are two ways to access properties on an object:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl520
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}\cf4 \cb1 Bracket Notation: using [ ]\cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl520
\cf2 	You can access properties on an object by specifying the name of the object followed by the property name in brackets. \
	Here\'92s the syntax: objectName["propertyName"]\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl520
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}\cf4 \cb1 Dot Notation: using '.'\cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl520
\cf2 	Dot notation is used most frequently.\
	You can access properties on an object by specifying the name of the object, followed by a dot (period) followed by the 			property name. This is the syntax: 	objectName.propertyName}